README.md, before:

# RocketSessions

A community-built Rocket League session manager focused on helping players review performance over time. This project is a personal, non-commercial tool created to improve the player experience with clear, session-based stats, trends, and coaching insights.

## Community-first intent

This project is built for the Rocket League community and has **no commercial ambitions**. It is an unofficial, fan-made tool intended to help players learn and improve. If you are reviewing access to official Rocket League APIs, please consider this as a community support project that prioritizes transparency and player benefit over monetization.

## Disclaimer

Rocket League is a trademark of Psyonix, LLC. This project is unaffiliated with and not endorsed by Psyonix or Epic Games.

## What it does

- Track Rocket League sessions across competitive modes (solo, 2v2, 3v3, 4v4).
- Store snapshots locally in SQLite for reliable session history.
- Show deltas and trend charts per session.
- Support manual snapshot uploads when automated polling is unavailable.
- Generate AI Coach reports grounded in the stored metrics.

## Tech stack

- Node.js + TypeScript (server)
- Express (API server)
- SQLite with better-sqlite3 (local persistence)
- React + Vite + TypeScript (client)
- Recharts (charts)

## Data storage note

This project uses a local SQLite database stored on your machine. The database file is created on first run and is **not** included in the repository. If you delete it, the app will recreate a fresh database.

## Screenshots

![Dashboard](docs/screenshots/dashboard.PNG)
![Session manager](docs/screenshots/sessionmanager.PNG)
![Team dashboard](docs/screenshots/teamdash.PNG)

## Quick start

1) Install dependencies from the repo root:

```bash
npm install
```

2) Configure the player stats API:

This project does not bundle any Rocket League APIs. You must supply your own player stats API credentials and endpoint, obtained through official, authorized channels in compliance with Psyonix/Epic policies.

You can set the API key and base URL in System Admin > API settings, or via a `.env` file at the repo root (see `.env.example`).

3) Run the dev servers:

```bash
npm run dev
```

- Server: http://localhost:3001
- Client: http://localhost:5173

## Usage overview

- Create a session for solo or team modes (2v2, 3v3, 4v4) using the relevant gamertags.
- The server captures a baseline snapshot and polls on the configured interval.
- Click "Refresh now" to trigger an immediate server-side fetch without starting another polling loop.
- Stop or end a session to retain the stored history.

## User roles and first admin setup

Roles:
- **Admin**: System Admin access, user approvals, and configuration (API keys, base URL, AI settings).
- **User**: Create/manage sessions and view team dashboards (subject to approvals).

Bootstrap the first admin (only if no users exist yet):
1) Set these environment variables before starting the server:

```bash
ADMIN_USERNAME="your_admin_username"
ADMIN_EMAIL="you@example.com"
ADMIN_PASSWORD="your_password"
```

2) Start the server. The first admin account will be created automatically.

After that, admins can approve or manage users from User Admin.

Environment variable loading order:
- `.env` file in the repo root (loaded by `dotenv` on server start).
- System Admin settings saved in the local database (loaded on server start).
- Current shell environment (`$env:VAR` or `set VAR=...`) overrides defaults.

## AI Coach (optional)

Enable AI Coach by setting OpenAI credentials:

```bash
# PowerShell
$env:OPENAI_API_KEY="your_openai_key"
$env:OPENAI_MODEL="gpt-4o-mini"
```

Then run:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open a session and click "Generate Coach Report" in the AI Coach panel. The server builds a compact coach packet from stored snapshots and the model returns a strict JSON report for the UI.

Prompt tuning:
- You can override the default **Session Coach** prompt and the **Team Coach** prompt separately in System Admin > AI Agent Settings.
- The override replaces the default prompt entirely. Clearing the override reverts to the default.
- You can also update the stored default prompt for each coach type from the same screen.

## Demo

Create a demo session quickly:

```bash
# POST http://localhost:3001/api/demo
```

## Known limitations

- AI Coach guidance is based on statistical aggregates (no replay or positional context).
- If playlistAverage data is missing, coaching advice is less specific.
- If the stats API rate limits or is unavailable, polling retries with exponential backoff and then skips that snapshot.
- This is an unofficial personal project; API changes may break parsing.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add ScoreboardCam ingestion and admin tooling

README.md, after:

# RocketSessions

A community-built Rocket League session manager focused on helping players review performance over time. This project is a personal, non-commercial tool created to improve the player experience with clear, session-based stats, trends, and coaching insights.

## Community-first intent

This project is built for the Rocket League community and has **no commercial ambitions**. It is an unofficial, fan-made tool intended to help players learn and improve. If you are reviewing access to official Rocket League APIs, please consider this as a community support project that prioritizes transparency and player benefit over monetization.

## Disclaimer

Rocket League is a trademark of Psyonix, LLC. This project is unaffiliated with and not endorsed by Psyonix or Epic Games.

## What it does

- Track Rocket League sessions across competitive modes (solo, 2v2, 3v3, 4v4).
- Store snapshots locally in SQLite for reliable session history.
- Show deltas and trend charts per session.
- Support manual snapshot uploads when automated polling is unavailable.
- Generate AI Coach reports grounded in the stored metrics.

## Tech stack

- Node.js + TypeScript (server)
- Express (API server)
- SQLite with better-sqlite3 (local persistence)
- React + Vite + TypeScript (client)
- Recharts (charts)

## Data storage note

This project uses a local SQLite database stored on your machine. The database file is created on first run and is **not** included in the repository. If you delete it, the app will recreate a fresh database.

## Screenshots

![Dashboard](docs/screenshots/dashboard.PNG)
![Session manager](docs/screenshots/sessionmanager.PNG)
![Team dashboard](docs/screenshots/teamdash.PNG)

## Quick start

1) Install dependencies from the repo root:

```bash
npm install
```

2) Configure the player stats API:

This project does not bundle any Rocket League APIs. You must supply your own player stats API credentials and endpoint, obtained through official, authorized channels in compliance with Psyonix/Epic policies.

You can set the API key and base URL in System Admin > API settings, or via a `.env` file at the repo root (see `.env.example`).

3) Run the dev servers:

```bash
npm run dev
```

- Server: http://localhost:3001
- Client: http://localhost:5173

## Usage overview

- Create a session for solo or team modes (2v2, 3v3, 4v4) using the relevant gamertags.
- The server captures a baseline snapshot and polls on the configured interval.
- Click "Refresh now" to trigger an immediate server-side fetch without starting another polling loop.
- Stop or end a session to retain the stored history.

## User roles and first admin setup

Roles:
- **Admin**: System Admin access, user approvals, and configuration (API keys, base URL, AI settings).
- **User**: Create/manage sessions and view team dashboards (subject to approvals).

Bootstrap the first admin (only if no users exist yet):
1) Set these environment variables before starting the server:

```bash
ADMIN_USERNAME="your_admin_username"
ADMIN_EMAIL="you@example.com"
ADMIN_PASSWORD="your_password"
```

2) Start the server. The first admin account will be created automatically.

After that, admins can approve or manage users from User Admin.

Environment variable loading order:
- `.env` file in the repo root (loaded by `dotenv` on server start).
- System Admin settings saved in the local database (loaded on server start).
- Current shell environment (`$env:VAR` or `set VAR=...`) overrides defaults.

## AI Coach (optional)

Enable AI Coach by setting OpenAI credentials:

```bash
# PowerShell
$env:OPENAI_API_KEY="your_openai_key"
$env:OPENAI_MODEL="gpt-4o-mini"
```

Then run:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open a session and click "Generate Coach Report" in the AI Coach panel. The server builds a compact coach packet from stored snapshots and the model returns a strict JSON report for the UI.

Prompt tuning:
- You can override the default **Session Coach** prompt and the **Team Coach** prompt separately in System Admin > AI Agent Settings.
- The override replaces the default prompt entirely. Clearing the override reverts to the default.
- You can also update the stored default prompt for each coach type from the same screen.

## ScoreboardCam integration (optional)

RocketSessions can ingest end-of-match scoreboard images captured by a Raspberry Pi (or any device) and convert them into structured match data.

How it works:
- Register a device to receive a one-time device key.
- The device polls for the active session context.
- The device uploads 1–3 scoreboard images after each match.
- The server extracts stats with OpenAI Vision and adds a match to the active session.

Key endpoints:
- `POST /api/v1/scoreboard/devices/register` → returns `{ deviceId, deviceKey, pollUrl, uploadUrl }`
- `GET /api/v1/scoreboard/devices/:deviceId/context` (Authorization: `Bearer <deviceKey>`)
- `GET /api/v1/scoreboard/devices/:deviceId/status` (Authorization: `Bearer <deviceKey>`)
- `POST /api/v1/scoreboard/ingest` (Authorization: `Bearer <deviceKey>`, multipart `images[]`)
- `POST /api/v1/scoreboard/ingest/:ingestId/process` (Authorization: `Bearer <deviceKey>`)

Notes:
- The Pi only uploads images. All extraction, mapping, and aggregation happen server-side.
- Dedupe is applied so repeated captures of the same scoreboard do not create duplicate matches.
- If OpenAI is not configured, the extractor returns a stub payload and the ingest will fail gracefully.
- Optional: set `OPENAI_VISION_MODEL` if you want a different model for images.
- You can view devices, ingests, and retention settings in System Admin > ScoreboardCam.
- Cleanup: run `npm --prefix server run cleanup:scoreboards` to delete stored ingest images older than the configured retention window.

## Demo

Create a demo session quickly:

```bash
# POST http://localhost:3001/api/demo
```

## Known limitations

- AI Coach guidance is based on statistical aggregates (no replay or positional context).
- If playlistAverage data is missing, coaching advice is less specific.
- If the stats API rate limits or is unavailable, polling retries with exponential backoff and then skips that snapshot.
- This is an unofficial personal project; API changes may break parsing.

## License

MIT
